All right, part of functions
is the concept of this, right?
So if anyone's written something
like a mouse click handler or
a DOM event handler, you know that
sometimes, like if you hook things
up the vanilla JavaScript way with
addEventListener in a browser,
this will be the DOM element
that fired the event.
So if we wanted to have
a click handler like this and
pass it a click event,
we wanted to rely on this being something,
like this being something,
we need to provide it with a type.
So here's a more involved example here.
So here we're getting a button.
We're literally getting the first button
in a document, like in an HTML page.
We can create a boundHandler
that tries to take myButton and
bind its context to undefined.
Well, let's sort this top piece out first.
So what we're seeing here
is that this cannot be
depended on unless we
provide it a specific thing.
So what we'll wanna do is the following.
All right,
it kind of looks like an argument.
You might look at this and say,
have we just made a two-argument function?
But it disappears.
This is still a one-argument function.
We're sort of using the arguments
list as a place to put a type for
this, but note,
now we get the correct type here.
So if you ever want to build functions
that need a this to be a particular
thing outside the context of class
methods where it's handled for
you behind the scenes,
this is what you'll need to do.
Note that if we just tried
to invoke myClickHandler and
pass it an event,
this is not going to work.
We don't have the correct this type.
It says this context of type void,
there's void again,
it's like, don't use this, ignore it,
you shouldn't be sensitive to this, right?
That's what void means here.
It's telling us this is not safe,
you shouldn't do this,
you can't do this, because you
need to create the proper type.
So what we're doing here
is we're creating a button.
We're then saying, I want to create
a copy of myClickHandler and
I want to bind it to my button.
Does everyone in here knows what bind is?
So you're almost creating
a copy of this function
that's sort of packaged
with a this applied to it,
and now anybody can invoke
this without worrying
about what to set this to,
it's just ready to go.
So now we've created
this new function here.
boundHandler is of type any.
This is a good little segue here.
We're gonna need to go to,
you can do this with me here.
We're gonna need to go
to the package.json.
No, not the package.json,
the tsconfig of this notes project.
So it's in the ts-fundamentals-v4 folder,
get the tsconfig.
So we've got no implicit this.
That's why it was lighting up here
before we added a type for this.
And now we're gonna add strict,
bind, call, apply.
Set it to true.
And look at that.
So strict, bind, call, apply.
This used to be any, but
now it's of a particular type.
And if we look at the type of the click
handler to begin with, see this piece?
And now when we have the boundHandler,
we've sort of taken the requirement for
explicitly providing a this
a way as part of what bind does.
So it's giving us a bound
version of the function.
Now that lets us just directly
invoke this function.
This is already sort of glued to
the boundHandler copy of the function.
Alternatively, we could
invoke the original function,
which still has a this type in it,
and we could call it,
but we have to pass it
this button as the this.
These are sort of like
meta function methods,
a way to invoke a function
a different way.
So if we were to open this up,
you can see it's like, it's demanding
that we provide an HTML button element,
cuz that's what we need here.
So it's only happy if we put in myButton.
It's kind of rare to deal with this types.
If you're using them in a class, great.
Where it becomes particularly
important is listening to DOM events,
that's the most frequent case.
Or if you're building React components and
you're kind of mixing top-level functions
with methods, that's where depending
on which of those two you're choosing.
One, the top-level scope freestanding
functions should not care about this.
Methods already have the instance
of the class as this.
>> So could you still call
the function on line 82 and
pass our first argument?
>> You can't.
When you invoke a function
in this fashion,
I'm trying to not use the word
this in my explanations,
desperately, you don't get to
explicitly provide a this.
This .call, that's what you need.
This is the way you would do this.
Or function.apply is
another way of doing it.
Apply, call, and
bind are kind of ways to sort of.
Apply and
call are ways to invoke the function and
pass it arguments, but also a this.
Bind is the one that sort of bakes
a this in to a copy of the function and
gives you that copy which,
at that point can be directly invoked,
just like you see here.
Yes, sir?
>> Is there something specific
happening with the word this,
if you change that first
argument to just element?
>> Very special.
>> Okay.
>> This is a special Javascript concept.
>> Not something TypeScript invented.
>> Okay, but if you name that
first argument just element,
you could still say
element.disabled = true, right?
>> Yep, but that would require
that you explicitly pass it in.
>> Every time, yeah.
>> So you could do it like this.
This is why you don't see it so
frequently cuz this is wiser.
And if we were to just move, select down,
out of the temporal dead zone.
There you go.
So it's almost like an implicit argument.
This is why if you're making
a freestanding function,
you wanna do it that way.
Now, if you're attaching an event
listener to a DOM element,
you don't really have a choice there.
You can't tell a DOM element
how to invoke your function.
It has defined the way it invokes your
function, and it will set a this.
And if you want to write a TypeScript
function that can take advantage of this,
you will need to provide a this type.